here in Berlin a large rally in
solidarity with Israel and in support of
the Jewish community in Germany is
underway thousands have gathered at the
iconic Brandenburg gate to show their
support among them are also friends and
family of those who have been taken
hostage by Hamas on the October 7th
Terror attacks that left more than 1300
Israelis dead German president Frank
valter steyer was among those speaking
at the rally he called for an immediate
release of all
hostages well for more we can now speak
to DW reporter Jared Reed who is at the
rally underway in Berlin good to see you
Jared so what were the strongest
messages that have come across at the
rally so
far Mariana there have been just a lot
of impassion messages here today at the
rally we heard from uh Ronnie Raman who
is a sister of one of the hostages uh
she talked basically about the anguish
that her and her family have been going
through uh since the October 7 Hamas
attack and it's actually her sister's
birthday today so she asked the crowd to
join her in singing Happy Birthday uh to
her sister I've been speaking to a
number of people and I guess the
overarching mood I guess is is one of
sadness that's why people have uh come
out here today to show their support and
solidarity a young woman I spoked to
said that she felt compelled to come out
because of the historical crimes that
Germany committed against the Jewish
people and that's why she came out today
to show her support an older man I spoke
to said that uh he doesn't necessarily
agree with the the policies of the
current Israeli government but felt
solidarity with Israel and the
isra people lots of mood and messages
here today but I guess the overarching
one is is one of
sadness and now Jared we know that since
Hamas launched its attack on Israel and
Israel has been taking its retali
retaliatory attacks on Hamas militants
in Gaza all of those casualties in Gaza
what we're also seeing is a really uh
large increase in anti-semitic attacks
both in Germany and other countries in
Berlin we just um had an attempted
firebombing of a synagogue just a few
days ago so um how strong is the police
presence at this rally
today Marana there are a lot of uh
police around uh at this rally and and
you're right there there has been an
increase in violence ever since the
Hamas attack German authorities say that
they've registered over a thousand
individual crimes ever since uh the
Hamas attack on October 7 there have
been various instances of violence
including as you say a Molotov cocktail
being uh thrown at a Jewish Cultural
Center so uh police have been stepping
up their uh presence and security both
at uh rallies like this one and of
course outside uh Jewish institutions in
Germany and uh I'm joined in the studio
by DW's Middle East analyst shaie
rosanas to unpack uh some of what the
German president was talking about some
very emotional language um very firm but
also very empathic Shani what what stood
out for you well we we've seen this day
um it's quite important we've seen also
um the messages we stand with Israel We
Stand by Israel the very fact you see
Israeli flags being waved you know
strongly proudly out there in the open
in the German Capital that for itself
should not be taken for granted many
Israelis many Jews living in Germany in
the last two weeks will tell you they
have been living in great fear uh the
idea of having any recognizable symbol
like the Star of David being displayed
outl is something they would never
imagine to do for themselves without the
support of so many Germans that we're
seeing coming today to the Boga tour to
the symbolic place the heart of the
German capital in unanimously saying we
support you we are against anti-Semitism
the message it sends to the Jewish and
Israeli population living in Germany and
in Europe I would believe is quite a
strong and very much a positive
reinforcement they need after two weeks
where we have seen constant reports of
of course the attacks and raisins
incidents and anatis but also people if
you talk to them they will tell you
they're not sending their kids to I mean
Jewish schools Jewish takers who have
been practically shut because of the
fear the great fear the parents have for
this well-being of their children um
still injured Germany um you know the
symbolism behind that so many years
after is it's quite striking and and the
president was talking about that as well
feeling ashamed for
that and uh he also mentioned that
police have strengthened uh security for
Jewish institutions uh in Berlin but
also around the country but is it enough
like can Jewish people in Germany feel
safe security is always a touchy subject
there we always hear more and more from
um the communities around Germany that
feel that they need more support more
financial support in order to have more
security many times they feel they don't
get enough backing from the local
government um for that purpose but we
also have seen uh in the last couple of
weeks a new campaign uh around Germany
saying the number of days a Jewish
institution should be you know secured
by policemen in Germany should come to
zero so as much as they want this
security they would also very much want
to have a different environment in which
they feel safe enough to not need that
and Germany is not there not just
Germany let's be honest I mean most
Jewish institutions around Europe are
such that they need protection so is
sometimes the case in the US we've seen
you know this also uh trickling there um
and the fear is is immense so uh these
declarative um you know statements that
we're seeing that the S the symbolism
behind so many Germans we have seen all
of the German parties Unite Here aside
from the uh right uh rightwing IFD
coming and joining along with um the
Christian uh Evangelist Church and the
Confederate of Bishops all of them
bringing you know joining forces against
anti-Semitism anti-Semitism in Germany
together this is very meaningful in the
statement is trying to send out loud we
also need to keep in mind as you said
that Stein Maya is aware of the growing
also uh resentment of of of German
citizens of palestin of Palestinian
origin who feel that their freedom their
right to show solidarity with what's
happening in Palestine that's also being
jeopardized and they feel that they are
not giving the right to express their
grief and their anger um and he was
trying somewhat tread the line carefully
saying we are against Hamas also because
it is jeopardizing the lives and the
livelihood and the dignity and the
safety of those in Gaza the Palestinians
themselves also again calling the need
for humanitarian corridors and securing
humanitarian needs of the Palestinians
in Gaza I'm not sure it's enough um for
the Palestinians who feel very much um
that they are you know their right of
speech is being you know uh pushed aside
these days but but it's definitely
showing that there's awareness to that
at least in the higher uh levels of
German uh government and can you tell us
more about what kind of people would be
attending today's rally you mentioned um
the major political parties and
religious groups and it does look like a
rather large crowd so so who is likely
to show up to a rally like this that is
specifically in solidarity with Israel
and against anti-Semitism and which
groups are likely to maybe stay away
well we've seen I mean I I cannot say
I've not checked myself who exactly is
there but we've seen definitely many
people of of all the parties that's for
itself is quite a big statement we we
know that a lot of Muslim organizations
that were asked to join we're not
feeling that this is the kind of event
they can take part of despite of where
they stand uh many of them are aware of
the complexity but still cannot find it
so easy to be taking part in this event
that seemed very one-sided to many of
them um but we've also I can also tell
you that as much as this is a in
solidarity with Jews um it's also
probably not attened by too many Jews
the fear um uh of of Jews and Israelis
in Germany to congregate these days
either you know be it in their
synagogues be it on the streets be it on
you know schoolyards um the fear is so
deep that many of them I I know from
Firs hand have chosen also to not be
attending today despite I'm sure that
great security and um many uh uh
different you enforcements this make
sure this is a safe uh um this is a safe
place for anybody who chooses to take
part yeah very tense times for everybody
at the moment that was Middle East
analyst sheny rosanas shenny thank you
so much you're welcome the
last